{"en":"We have learnt to expect that trains will be punctual. ^ ","ch":"我们已经习惯于相信火车总是准点的。  "}
{"en":"After years of conditioning,  most of us have developed an unshakable faith in railway timetables. ^ ","ch":"经过多年的适应， 大多数人对火车时刻表产生了一种不可动摇的信念。  "}
{"en":"flights may be cancelled because of bad weather,  but trains must be on time. ^ ","ch":"飞机航班可能因恶劣天气而取消， 唯有火车必然是准点的。  "}
{"en":"Only an exceptionally heavy snowfall might temporarily dislocate railway services. ^ ","ch":"只有非同寻常的大雪才可能暂时打乱铁路运行。  "}
{"en":"It is all too easy to blame the railway authorities when something does go wrong. ^ ","ch":"因此， 一旦铁路上真出了问题， 人们便不加思索地责备铁路当局。  "}
{"en":"The truth is that when mistakes occur,  they are more likely to be ours than theirs. ^ ","ch":"事实上， 差错很可能是我们自己， 而不是铁路当局的。  "}
{"en":"After consulting my railway timetable,  I noted with satisfaction that there was an express train to Westhaven. ^ ","ch":"我查看了列车时刻表， 满意地了解到有一趟去威斯特海温的快车。  "}
{"en":"It went direct from my local station and the journey lasted a mere hour and seventeen minutes. ^ ","ch":"这是趟直达车， 旅途总共才需1小时17分钟。  "}
{"en":"When I boarded the train,  I could not help noticing that a great many local people got on as well. ^ ","ch":"上车后， 我不禁注意到许多当地人也上了车。  "}
{"en":"I reflected that there must be a great many people besides myself who wished to take advantage of this excellent service. ^ ","ch":"我想除我之外， 想利用快车之便的也一定大有人在。  "}
{"en":"Neither was I surprised when the train stopped at Widley,  a tiny station a few miles along the line. ^ ","ch":"火车开出几英里即在一个小站威德里停了下来。 对此， 我不觉得奇怪，  "}
{"en":"Even a mighty express train can be held up by signals. ^ ","ch":"因为即便是特别快车也可能被信号拦住。  "}
{"en":"But when the train dawdled at station after station,  I began to wonder. ^ ","ch":"但是， 当火车一站接着一站往前蠕动时， 我便产生了怀疑。  "}
{"en":"It suddenly dawned on me that this express was not roaring down the line at ninety miles an hour,  but barely chugging along at thirty. ^ ","ch":"我突然感到这趟快车并没以时速90英里的速度呼啸前进， 而是卟哧卟哧地向前爬行， 时速仅30英里。  "}
{"en":"One hour and seventeen minutes passed and we had not even covered half the distance. ^ 1","ch":"小时17分过去了， 走了还不到一半路程。  "}
{"en":"I asked a passenger if this was the Westhaven Express,  but he had not even heard of it. ^ ","ch":"我问一位乘客， 这是不是开往威斯特海温的那趟快车， 他说从未听说过有这么一趟快车。  "}
{"en":"I determined to lodge a complaint as soon as we arrived. ^ ","ch":"我决定一到目的地就给铁路部门提意见。  "}
{"en":"Two hours later,  I was talking angrily to the station master at Westhaven. ^ ","ch":"两小时后， 我气呼呼地同威斯特海温站站长说起此事。  "}
{"en":"When he denied the train's existence,  I borrowed his copy of the timetable. ^ ","ch":"他说根本没有这趟车。 于是我借他本人的列车时刻表，  "}
{"en":"There was a note of triumph in my voice when I told him that it was there in black and white. ^ ","ch":"我带着一种胜利者的调子告诉他那趟车白纸黑字、明明白白印在时刻表上。  "}
{"en":"Glancing at it briefly,  he told me to look again. ^ ","ch":"他迅速地扫视了一眼， 让我再看一遍。  "}
{"en":"A tiny asterisk conducted me to a footnote at the bottom of the page. ^ ","ch":"一个小小的星形符号把我的目光引到了那页底部一个说明上。  "}